We can kinda take this a bit further,
right?
Like, this isn't a real app,
it's a counter.
So let's make an app component,
let's say, and
our app component is going
to return a fragment again.
And it's going to have
some counters in it.
And this is kind of an introduction
to components here,
because we're using Capital
case syntax to run a component.
So this is why we named
them Pascal case here,
because any thing in JSX that
is pascal case does a tag,
will be a component rather
than a native element.
So for the lowercase ones, you can only
use what's available in the environment
like button or h1,
these are HTML elements.
But by using the Pascal's case you
can run any arbitrary function and
have it act as our component here.
So, what we're gonna do is,
instead of rendering counter,
we are gonna render app.
And app has two counters
that are counting up, but
I'm gonna get rid of the set interval,
cuz this is just noise.
And as you can see,
we have counters, two console logs,
and hopefully if you're
following me to this point,
if you can click each one, they each
have their own state that they manage.
And when you update them, they are
literally just changing these two effects,
nothing else reruns.
There's only the original
two counter console logs.
And this is pretty powerful
because it's very simple.
You saw how we got here,
because we literally just without a
component system had our own update model.
But it has a lot of implications, because
if you think that this is just a function,
nothing fancy, and
this has nothing to do with that function,
you can do stuff like this,
like pull it out And
if you know JavaScript well, if you have a
variable that's referenced by functioning
and multiple instances,
they just share that state.
So now we have global state management,
it's the same thing.
All that happens is when we update the
count, it updates these two text nodes,
nothing else, no rerunning, nothing else.
And global state management
is pretty sweet.
We often actually have
a kind of more scope.
So what we can do, is we can bring our
signal now, and let's put in an app.
That's fine, counters complaining
that count is not defined.
And that's because it's going
to get something called props,
and props is the object that
gets passed in with all
the properties that you
pass it on your component.
And for art's sake, what are we gonna do?
You can pass props a few different ways,
but
I'm going to, sorry, counter.
We're going to pass the count actually,
as the children props, but
I'm gonna go like this,
and pass it between like this.
And if we do that, we also need
a way to handle updating that count.
So, what I'm going to do here, is we
can call this really whatever we want,
our convention is generally
a put an on in front of it.
This suggests like it's an event, but,
I mean,
it can really be anything let's say,
Yeah, I'm just gonna use on click,
cuz I'm kinda being lazy about this, but
We can just do on click and what I'm going
to do here, is I'm going to take the set
count that we have from above here,
and I'm going to stick one in each.
And to differentiate it a bit, I'm gonna
say the top counter increments by 1,
and the bottom counter increments by 2.
And actually, to differentiate these,
I'm gonna make the second counter
actually be 2 times the count as well.
So one updates by 2 and
2 times to count the other ones
kind of like original counter.
And what we need to do here, is now,
because we don't have count anymore,
we need to reference it, and the way
we do that, if you do props.children,
for ones that are passed in between,
and then for name things,
we can just reference them directly,
so props.onClick.
And for emphasis, unmute this count,
I'm going to go console log app.
But at this point, I'm thinking it might
be unsurprising what happens here.
So we have app, and
we have our two counters.
Let's try clicking the first button.
Well, they're sharing state still,
because the state is being passed in
from the app component that's above.
But what you notice is
the first counter shows 1,
and the second one shows 2 because it's
2 times a count like we set up here.
Actually, let's format this so
we can see it a bit better.
Yeah.
But nothing console logs, app doesn't
console log, neither counter console logs.
In fact, When we click the second button,
and it adds by 2,
we see the same thing as well.
Basically, nothing needs to rerun,
except for those same two effects
in the same two text nodes that
we've had right from the beginning.
So this is important to kind of show,
because it's important to understand that
no matter how many components you have,
the performance scales,
it doesn't actually matter.
It doesn't scale on code size, or number
components, it scales on interactivity.
And this is very powerful for performance,
but you might still be looking at this and
go, okay, I'm missing something.
How is it possible that I can have
expressions like count times 2,
and stuff from the Parent Talk to things
in the child without things re rendering.
And there is a little bit
of a trick with that, but
it's not too different than what
we've been seeing so far actually.
And that is most of the work,
the components self is just a function.
It's technically a little bit
more than a function actually.
It's a function that's called
with on track, because,
we wanna make sure that if people
access reactivity top level and
the component is not gonna
cause some parent retriggering.
So that this is a use case for on track.
But for the most part, the actual power
the compilation is how we manage props.
We actually look at the props the same
way we looked at the other JSX and
decide how to handle it.
So in the case of an example like this,
if we see that there's a function call or
a property access,
we wrap it in a getter, which we saw
earlier on when I was comparing to view.
So this is just lazy.
It doesn't run this function until
you call props.name for example, or
props.children.
And then if it's a static value,
like a string or a number or something,
It just inlines it right away,
it's just part of the object.
Like in this case this change
handler it's not a function call,
but a function declaration.
We can pass it straight through.
And understanding this,
it means that inside our components,
we can treat everything as props.blank,
whether it's a signal or
a wrapped expression, or
whatever static value.
The interface is the same from
the inside and the outside,
as long as you treat it like you're
passing a value, you call those functions.
The compiler can see that and
create the correct getters, and
in so, what we've done is effectively
flattened the whole tree.
The whole component tree
doesn't matter anymore,
because the only thing that happens is,
when we get to that text node,
way down, where we're updating that text,
it calls prop.children,
which is this getter,
which calls the count internally.
So we just call all the functions
inside the effects and
nothing else needs to rerun.
So that's basically
the power of this approach.
We kinda forget about the components, and
just focus on updating only what changes.
And I'm gonna take this
a little bit further,
hopefully everyone can see this.
The idea here is,
what if all rendering was an effect?
And some frameworks they like to
tell you that all rendering is pure,
that it's like something that
doesn't have side effects.
And the challenge there is
when you do have side effects,
you suddenly have to kinda
break through that model,
you're kind of like, there's different
rules here, you have to follow.
But with Souls approach,
you can kind of view
the whole tree as a bunch
of nested effects.
So, if you have an effect, and
under that affect, you create signal a,
but then you only read it under the second
effect, and that second effect also
creates its own signals, that only are
read under effect three, four and five.
You're actually isolating it,
cuz as I showed earlier when we create our
own system, the effects execution is just
a stack that we push on to and pop off.
So it's only the nearest
effect that matters.
So if you update b, for
example, or d, let's say,
then it only needs to
rerun that little bit.
If you update a, well, yeah,
you have to do a little bit more work.
But you have to understand
that in real app,
code like this might
look something like this.
So our d or b might be in effect,
that say update the document title,
and what's your updates?
Some text in a paragraph element,
and a in our example,
is inside a conditional, like a turn area.
So you're not gonna update a very
often unless you're actually changing
a condition, like deciding whether
the show, that whole subsection.
So, what ends up happening, ultimately,
is our branching points, the places
that change are based on the logic of
your code, not based on components.
So it doesn't matter how many
components we put in the middle,
between these points, it scales on,
like, decisions, using conditions.